### <a name="rule-5.2"></a> 5.2. Use argument `sort` of type `Enum` or `[Enum!]` for listings sorting.

Sorting by field might be required for longer listings. Some times even by several fields.

First of all, the team has to choose a name for the sorting argument. The following popular names comes in mind — `sort`, `order`, `orderBy`. Because at the parsing and validation stage of your query GraphQL will do that check by itself and will fail query with exception if value is not present. the word `order` can be treated differently in many contexts (food order, alphabetical order, Soviet order, etc.). Also, it's mainly used only in relational databases. Then the best choice of name for the sort field will be — sort. It can be clearly understood and will be appreciated by everyone.

Since the argument name is defined, then you must select the type for the sorting argument:

- If we take String, it will be difficult for the client to specify the correct values and we do not get the ability to validate parameters by means of GraphQL.
- You can create an input-type `input ArticleSort { field: SortFieldsEnum, order: AscDescEnum }` — structure from which you can select the field name and a sort type. But this approach will not work if you have a full-text sort or proximity sort. They simply do not have a DESC (reverse sort) value.
- What remains it's the easiest and surest way, use Enum to enumerate the list of available sorts e. g. `enum ArticleSort { ID_ASC, ID_DESC, TEXT_MATCH, CLOSEST }. In this case, you can explicitly specify the available sorting methods.

Also, if you carefully read how enum types are declared on the server, in addition to the ID_ASC key, you can set the value of id ASC (for SQL), or { id: 1 } (for NoSQL). As we can see clients see the unified key ID_ASC, but on the server, in the resolve-method, you get a ready value for substitution in the request. Conversion of the sort key takes place inside the Enum-type, which in turn will make the code of your resolve-method smaller and cleaner.

And now, to be able to sort by several fields, we just need to be able to pass an array of values to sort. As a result, we get the following sort declaration:

```graphql
type Query {
  articles(sort: [ArticleSort!]): [Article]
}

enum ArticleSort {
  ID_ASC, ID_DESC, TEXT_MATCH, CLOSEST
}
```