### <a name="rule-3.2"></a> 3.2. Make the fields `NonNull` if data is returned in any situation.

Defining a field in your schema as `NonNull` means that GraphQL promises to always return a value when the field is queried. It allows clients to do fewer response validation checks in their code and improves static analysis. If suddenly backend does not return data on a required (NonNull) field, GraphQL will return an error stating that there is no data. In this case, the parent object value will be set to null. And if the parent object is also a required field (NonNull), then will be thrown the error even higher. In any case, the client will not receive an object (graphQL type) without data for a required (NonNull) field.

This rule also applies on returning of arrays.

```graphql
type MyLists {
  list1: [String]   # [], [null], null
  list2: [String]!  # [], [null]
  list3: [String!]  # [], null
  list4: [String!]! # []                <-- BETTER!
}
```

If you always return an array, mark it as `[SomeType]!` (`new GraphQLNonNull(new GraphQLList(SomeType))`). By default, all the fields in GraphQL are "nullable" (can be set to null), so users need to first check for the existing of an array, and then go through it. Sometimes it very pollutes the code. Therefore, if you always return an array, then mark the field as NonNull. At the same time, the array itself may contain null elements, if you always return array of non-null elements, then mark it as `[SomeType!]!` (`new GraphQLNonNull(new GraphQLList(new GraphQLNonNull(SomeType)))`).

If not to make a `boolean` field as required (all fields are "nullable" by default), then it can have three states: true/false/null:

```graphql
type MyBool {
  bool1: Boolean  # true, false, null
  bool2: Boolean! # true, false
}
```